Here is the full 3-flow demo plan. This progression tells a powerful story, scaling from a live, simple, magical win to a complex, multi-cloud enterprise solution.
Each flow showcases a different, high-value use of the Gemini API, which is key to winning that track.
:rocket: Flow 1: The "Live Analyst" Dashboard
This demo is your "hook." It's visual, magical, and shows soda handling live, automated, AI-enriched data for a business user.
The Persona: A Business Analyst.
The Problem: "I have a feed of new transactions, but it's just raw data. I need them to be categorized and fed into my Google Sheet dashboard live."
The soda Flow:
You will run a new command: soda watch --source ./live_feed/transactions.csv --sink 'finance_sheet' --task 'categorize_transaction'.
This command uses a Python library (watchdog) to monitor the CSV file.
In a second terminal, you will simulate a new sale by adding a new line to the CSV: echo "1011,49.99,Office Depot" >> ./live_feed/transactions.csv.
The Gemini API Showcase (AI Enrichment):
soda detects the new line.
It sends that single line to the Gemini API with a prompt: "You are a finance expert. Categorize this transaction: 49.99,Office Depot".
Gemini returns a value like "Office Supplies".
soda appends the enriched row (1011,49.99,Office Depot,Office Supplies) to the Google Sheet.
The "Wow" Moment (Live):
The judges will have their eyes on your open Google Sheet.
Seconds after you run the command in Terminal 2, they will watch the new, categorized row magically appear in the Google Sheet in real-time. This is a 10/10 visual win.
:rocket: Flow 2: The "Data Engineer's" Toolkit
This demo proves soda is a serious, technical tool that respects professional workflows.
The Persona: A Data Engineer.
The Problem: "I need to build a robust pipeline. I have to pull data from our legacy Google Cloud SQL database, remove all PII, and land it in our GCS Data Lake as Parquet for our nightly Spark jobs."
The soda Flow:
You will run soda build --interactive.
You'll connect to the Cloud SQL database: (soda) > connect to 'gcp-legacy-db'.
soda shows a preview of the data, including sensitive columns.
The Gemini API Showcase (AI Translator):
You (the "engineer") will type a complex, technical command in plain English:
(soda) > drop PII columns 'first_name', 'last_name', and 'ssn', and convert the 'sale_timestamp' to a unix epoch
soda sends this to Gemini (with the hidden schema context), which translates it into the correct pandas code.
soda executes the code and shows the new preview, now with the PII gone and the timestamp converted.
You type: (soda) > save to 'gcs_datalake' --format parquet
The "Wow" Moment (Technical):
You switch to your browser and refresh the Google Cloud Storage bucket.
The judges will see a new, professional-grade output.parquet file. This proves soda is an AI-powered tool for engineers, not just a toy for CSVs.
:rocket: Flow 3: The "Consultant's" Grand Finale
This is your climax. It combines everything: multi-cloud, messy data, AI ingestion, and a direct-to-BI payoff.
The Persona: A Consultant in a "QBR Fire Drill."
The Problem: "It's 5 PM. I need to blend our production data from Snowflake with a competitor's PDF report from AWS S3. The final dashboard must be in Power BI for the CEO... now."
The soda Flow:
You have Power BI Desktop (on your laptop) open, showing an empty/old dashboard. It's connected to your Snowflake trial and a Google Sheet.
You run soda build --interactive from your GCE instance.
soda pulls the base data from Snowflake: (soda) > connect to 'snowflake_prod'.
The Gemini API Showcase (AI Ingestor):
You type the magic command: (soda) > merge with 's3://client-reports/q3_competitor.pdf'.
soda downloads the PDF from S3 and sends the entire document to the Gemini API with the prompt: "You are an expert data extractor. Read this PDF and return a clean JSON of all tabular data."
soda gets the JSON, converts it to a DataFrame, and merges it with the Snowflake data, showing a new preview of the blended data.
You type: (soda) > save to snowflake 'QBR_FINAL' and google_sheet 'powerbi_feed'.
The "Wow" Moment (The Payoff):
You switch to Power BI Desktop.
You say "And now, we refresh." You click the "Refresh" button.
The judges watch as the Power BI charts animate and populate with the fully blended, multi-cloud, AI-extracted data. You've just performed a 2-day-long data engineering nightmare in 2 minutes.





